<html lang="en">
    
    <body>
      
            <h1>History of Electricity</h1>
      <p>Humanity can do amazing things. But seeing our amazing feats should give one reasonable doubt about it coming at a cost. And indeed, with every human feat, there comes a cost. Building and advancing humanity is not free, and relying on finite materials that take billions of years to form cannot be the go-to. Instead, shiftting our economy to be based on things with naturally shorter lifespans is the key to prolonging humanity and our unimaginable potential. We have shown our amazing creativity but what I think would be even more impressive is if we were able to use innovation to enhance human rights and our connection to the Earth.

	Our world is a beautiful place with natural serenity and balance. Billions of organisms somehow live on it in harmony despite having their own motives. THat is, they did until now. The damage that climate change can do is parallel to that of a mass exctinction, with the potential to kill up to 70% of plant and animal species by the end of the century. We are the only animals smart enough to create infrastructures, cities, and algorithms, which ultimately gave us the evolutionary upper hand, but it also comes with a responsibility. The smartest beings on this Earth should not only create new and exciting inventions but also know how to create them without doing fatal damage. Luckily that is possible and accessible in our current society. There’s nothing I love more than discovering and learning things and nowhere I can do that better than in nature. Many people associate nature with simplicity but all mechanical inventions come from an observation or replication of natural processes. From planes to wetsuits to Velcro, nature has given us countless modern inventions, and National Geographic estimates that 86% of species on Earth are still undiscovered. Not only does it inspire productivity, but it also has been shown to decrease stress and boost mood. Nature brings us back to balance, so it is no wonder that the biggest problem humanity is facing today can be solved by harnessing it. Despite what your light bill and gas prices make you think, all the eneergy you need could be free.The truth is energy is all around us and the only thing with a price are the tools that make that energy usable. Windmills and solar panels are more than worth the money, with a return on investment of 12-20 years and 8-13 years respectively. After that, you are making money by not paying and you could even sell power back to the grid with a license. Choosing green energy is easier on the planet and your wallet because it is an effective way to access the energy constantly around you.
	Energy existing around you is not the same as having access to usable energy. In fact, it is almost impossible to go from the first state to the second because of one of Earth’s core principles, The Second Law of Thermodynamics: the state of entropy of the entire universe, as an isolated system, will always increase over time. It basically means that energy has the tendency to get less usable over time, spreading out and eventually reaching equilibrium, the opposite of what we want. Entropy makes things harder and can only be opposed by using energy. Our biggest source of entropy-opposing energy is the sun, so the smartest way to power our technologies is to get energy directly from it. Solar panels do that effectively as well as wind turbines through their harvesting of energy that exists as a result of Earth’s uneven heating from the sun. These ways of producing energy are more direct and make more sense because they are constantly accessible throughout the world. The forms of energy that we are currently too reliant on are not as accessible, requiring drilling while disrupting habitats and fueling the most detrimental industry to the planet.Transitioning to and advancing more accessible energy is vital to a more sustainable and financially equitable future. It is the best way to combat entropy with less transfers of energy.

	Unfortunately these resources are inconsistent, as it is only windy and sunny part of the time. The key to making the best use of renewable and accessible energies is to store it. There are many effective and advanced ways to store energy. From hydrogen to lithium-ion to superconductors, there is no shortage of energy-storage technology, allowing us to take full advantage of the energy all around us. Energy storage and renewable energy technology should be developed together and integrated to things like our grid in order to effectively reroute our technology advancements to be healing to our environment.

</p>
    </body>
</html>
