
<html lang="en">
    
    <body>
      
            <h1>History of Electricity</h1>
      <p>
Food is a necessary and consistent consumption. Because it is needed so often, changing food choices can be monumental for the environment.
I am a true believer that food can be medicine and that eating foods that fuel the body is an empowering and caring action. According to the National Library of Medicine, “Poor diet is the leading cause of mortality in the U.S. due to the direct relationship with diet-related chronic diseases” The key to not only healing but preventing the development of many diseases. I am someone who has struggled immensely with choosing what to eat, often feeling overwhelmed with choices. It often felt about a choice between pleasure and health until I learned more about the food I was comsuming. I realized it is less about whether it had sugar or not or how many calories it contianed. Our bodies are made to process any type of food that comes out of the grounds, whether it is potatoes, fruit, dates, or oats. I used to define these foods as unhealthy, but the  key was actually whether it comes out of the ground. Many (Blue Zones)

	The reason it took me so long to realize this is because food companies take so many angles to sell you food. SUgar-free, gluten-free, fat-free, and even alkaline foods flood the shelves and make deciding one option extremely overwhelming. I hope to sort out these conflicting messages, preserving people’s sense of choice while elucidating which differences in food products matter. The Book How to Decide explains a concept called the happiness test, arguing that asking yourself if a decision will matter after a week, month, or year, puts the importance of the decision into perspective. Food decisions do not pass the happiness test, so it is valuable to most to reduce decision time to focus on other things. What simplified the process for me was not making it about the food. With popularization of one’s “relationship with food” made me think that there is a right decision if I thought about it enough. The truth is the best relationship with food is no relationship with food. In an ideal scenario, food should not take up miuch time and one should be able to learn from and let go of mistakes about food. The best way to do that is to focus on the best way I can care for my community, buying fresh and local food from hard-working farmers. They are who I want to give my money to, not huge corporations that are profiting off of the “Approximately one million people die annually from diet-related chronic diseases”. Biggest food companies: . Not only are most emissions produced during its processing and packaging, which huge corporations do the most of, but they are also the biggest investors in oil-drilling, which you might find yourself asking why they still exist when there are so many affordable renewable energy options out there. The reason why is because huge food companies are still investing in these greedy oil companies but they are certainly not advertising it because they know how bad of a choice they are making. These companies try to tempt consumers by selling at lower prices and packing their food with pleasure chemicals, but I love seeing consumers take power back by choosing to be more intentional with their money and sticking to affordable and nourishing options that are also better for the planet. These options might seem fancy and unrealistic to many but starting by grabbing free and unpackaged food from the fresh produce section can be less expensive and more than worth it for the healthy and tasty outcome. It is proven to be more nutritious not only because of better farming practices, but also because the nutrients don’t have as much time to go through the process of naturally breaking down and becoming less bioavailable after being picked. Only about 8% of food in the US is local so I really try to do my best to give my money to those farmers who work hard growing nutritious and tasty food that nourishes the body. Food that is locally-grown also is more nutritious. Overall. It saves the planet not only by reducing fossil fuels needed to transport but also by not contributing to the polluting oil industry, all the while, giving you the chance to enjoy more nutritious and delicious meals.

	The ultimate way to reduce one’s carbon footprint would be to grow food at home but something that farmers would likely have to provide is meat. Americans consume an abnormally high amount of meat, 40% more than the USDA recommends and more per-capita consumption than any other country at about 4.7 lbs of meat per week, which has been proven by BMC Medicine to lead to conditions such as diabetes, heart disease, and pneumonia. Not only is it bad for health, but meat consumption is also detrimental to the environment. Raising livestock uses a substantial amount of water, food, and cleared land. Cows specifically have a huge carbon footprint equivalent because they output lots of methane, a greenhouse gas that is more than 80x worse than carbon dioxide. Farmers also often clear land to make space for them including the Amazon rainforest, where there are more than four times the amount of cows than humans in some regions. The first step for most is reducing meat consumption. Reducing beef intake is one of the best things one can do to reduce their carbon footprint. Methane is produced in the cow’s stomach, so it can be eliminated by feeding them a certain diet. But not all farms have bad practices and should be eliminated. We as consumers have the opportunity to fund farmers who are smaller scale with more ethical and sustainable practices. It is truly the huge companies that are importing lower-quality beef that are doing the damage, and while it can seem like we are powerless, in reality, consumers have all the power because they can choose to either fuel or starve the engine of corporate greed. It is proven that substituting beef with beans would be an extremely environmentally friendly choice, freeing up 42% of cropland in the US, getting the US 75% of the way to reaching its 2020 goal in the Paris Agreement, increasing fiber intake and reducing risk of heart disease, diabetes, and certain cancers related to meat consumption. Whatever we can do to get close to that way of life and goal is extremely beneficial and worthwhile to get us one step closer to a livable future for all life. 

	


Food and Climate Change: Healthy diets for a healthier planetthe United Nationshttps://www.un.org › science › climate-issues › food
beef-beans-mitigating-climate-change
</p>
    </body>
</html>
